Dear Colleagues:

Here are some thoughts about calculating W + 4 jets event probability
using the matrix element (ME) technique. It would be nice to get your
comments before writing the code.

-- I am assuming that we plan to use W + 4 jets ME calculation for
   the untagged sample only. For samples with b tags, a separate
   calculation using W + bb + qq matrix element would be needed.

-- Integration over parton angular variables for the W + 4 jets process
   seems like a waste of time as the only sharp term in the matrix element
   is the W propagator. If we integrate over the W mass, the neutrino Pz
   can always be adjusted to get the mass needed.

-- Assuming perfect lepton momentum measurement, a good set of phase space
   variables to integrate over are just magnitudes of the parton momenta,
   W mass squared, and the overall transverse momentum of the W + 4 jets
   system -- 7 variables total. In case W decays into tau nu with the
   subsequent decay tau -> l nu nu, there is one more variable to integrate
   over: the fraction of tau momentum carried by l (assuming l and tau
   directions are the same). The jacobian for this set of variables is
   relatively simple (much simpler than the top mass jacobian), but it
   does turn to 0 at the phase space boundary. This means that one can not
   integrate over W mass squared using MC (or quasi-MC). A somewhat more
   careful approach is needed, similar to what was done for top (details
   are in the Appendix C of CDF note 9245 -- but for W + 4 jets things are
   significantly simpler).

-- Transfer functions (TFs) used in the top mass measurement are rather
   complicated. Not only they depend on the jet mass (to be precise, this
   is not observed jet mass, this is the mass of MC ID=94 proto-jets),
   they are also not factorizable into the product of Pt and angular TFs.
   In the TF construction procedure, Pt TFs are conditioned on delta
   eta between the jet and the parton. If we do not want to integrate
   over jet angular variables for W + 4 jets, we have no choice but to
   use different TFs for ttbar and W + 4 jets.

-- Use of the transfer functions which depend on the the jet mass appears
   to be problematic for another reason. When the phase space integration
   is performed using massive proto-jets, one still has to get back to
   the tree level for the ME calculation. The procedure for doing this in
   the top mass case is described in the Appendix D of CDF note 9245. It
   relies substantially on the presence of intermediate resonances with
   known masses (these masses are actually integrated over, but for
   kinematic calculations they are considered fixed), so this procedure
   can not be applied to the W + 4 jets process. Because of this (and
   the previous item), it appears to be the easiest to construct the new
   TFs and the corresponding efficiencies w.r.t. the massless tree-level
   partons rather than the ID=94 proto-jets.

-- The TF for the l/tau momentum ratio can be different between ttbar
   and W + 4 jets. This is because, in principle, the fraction of tau
   momentum carried away by l depends on the tau polarization which,
   in turn, depends on the W polarization. I presume, the VECBOS ME sums
   over polarizations of the outgoing lepton anyway, so the best we could
   do is to determine the average l/tau momentum ratio distribution
   from whatever W + jets MC we are going to use.

-- Do we expect the dependence of the W + 4 jets transverse momentum
   prior on some kinematic characteristics of the events (like the HT
   or the invariant mass of the system)? I do not have good intuition
   here. In case of ttbar, this prior does exhibit a mild dependence
   on the top mass.

Regards,
Igor
