Things to take care of:

1) Phase space singularity in the integration over the W mass.

2) Determination of the integral convergence.

3) Proper inclusion of the transfer function efficiency term in the
   integral.

4) Transfer functions (TFs) used in the top mass measurement are rather
   complicated. Not only they depend on the jet mass, they are also
   not factorizable into the product of Pt and angular TFs. In the TF
   construction procedure, Pt TFs are built depending on delta eta
   between the jet and the parton. On the other hand, integration
   over parton angular variables for the W + 4 jets process would
   just be a waste of time, as there are no sharp propagator terms
   in the matrix element (leptonic W mass is sharp but this does not
   matter because the neutrino Pz can always be adjusted to get the
   W mass needed). If we do not want to integrate over jet angular
   variables for W + 4 jets, we have no choice but to use different
   TFs for ttbar and W + 4 jets.

5) Do we want to take the jet mass dependence into account for TFs?
   If we do, how do we get back to the tree level kinematics for the ME
   calculation? The procedure for doing this in the top mass case is
   described in the Appendix D of CDF Note 9245. It relies substantially
   on the presence of intermediate resonances with known masses (these
   masses are actually integrated over, but for kinematical calculations
   they are considered fixed), so this procedure can not be applied to
   the W + 4 jets case.

6) Determination of jet Pt importance sampling functions, especially for
   low Pt jets.

7) Determination of the W + 4 jets transverse momentum prior. Does it
   depend on the jet spectrum or does it factorize? In case of top mass
   measurement, it does exhibit some (but rather weak) dependence on the
   top mass.

8) What do we do with W -> tau nu? The top mass measurement assumes that
   it picks up W -> tau nu in case tau subsequently decays into l nu nu.
   It also assumes that l flies in the same direction as the original
   tau. In principle, the fraction of tau momentum carried away by l
   depends on the tau polarization which, in turn, depends on the W
   polarization. Thus the spectrum of the l/tau momentum ratio can be
   different between ttbar and W + 4 jets. I presume, the VECBOS ME sums
   over polarizations of the outgoing lepton anyway, so the best we could
   do is to determine the average l/tau momentum ratio distribution
   from whatever W + jets MC we are going to use.

9) I presume, we are not going to consider W + 4 jets contribution for
   events with b tags (otherwise W + bb + qq matrix element will be needed).

10) Is W mass propagator included in the VECBOS ME?

11) Does VECBOS ME assume that the total Pt of W + 4 jets is 0?

12) What VECBOS ME assumes about parton masses? -- they are all 0.

13) Apparently, there is a bug in the original MTM3 code in handling
    the low Pt cutoff -- the JES there is taking as the current JES
    instead of the JES at the cutoff.
